So, here we're continuing our series on building from source.
And our next video is on Debian and lets get on with it.
Just a brief overview of what we are going to do.
We are going to do a description of Debian and then after that we are going to do,
building from source and just the procedure for it. Yeah, off to description.
So what exactly is Debian?
So Debian is an operating system that's built from free software,
and the software is licensed under GNU.
And as you guys might have already known Ubuntu
is Debian based and it's one of the most popular Linux operating systems out there.
A lot of Linux computers,
virtual machines/dual boot use Ubuntu.
So Debian is very, very widespread.
And another advantage to Debian is that,
it has a really easy way of updating your software.
So, the apt command that we might have mentioned
earlier is just a single line command that you can type into your computer,
and it just installs,
updates software that you need in your operating system.
And this is also our choice for most of Coursera.
We're going to focus on Debian,
Android, and Open Embedded,
not quite so much.
But if you really are wondering
what operating system that we're going to use and like things about it,
then this is a really good option.
And then let's get to the next slide.
Yeah. So here are the actual steps I started.
But first familiarize yourself with fastboot.
The instructions have been mentioned in previous videos.
We're going to restate them here.
So we want to connect the DragonBoard to the host computer,
through the micro USB and USB cable.
Then set up fastboot mode on the DragonBoard
and then follow the instructions on the 96 board instruction website.
And they'll be read in the readings.
And important things to note is that you want to
make sure you have space on your host computer because,
Debian itself is very, very large.
So you want to have enough hard drive space,
or just space to store that huge OS.
Next thing you want is to patch your GCC cross compiler.
And it is a directory's bin folder.
And if necessary we need to transfer
the module files to lib modules folder of the DragonBoard 410c.
Set off to a little bit more.
Yeah.
So here we are at the website,
and this is a very lengthy website that we've provided for you.
So, we're just going to go over which parts that you need to look at.
So in order to customize your kernel source code,
kernel meaning your operating system.
This is the place you want to see,
so you want to follow all these steps.
And if you want to customize one way of customizing is,
just changing these three tags over here. Sorry let me.
Oh where my mouse cursor is I can't highlight it for some reason.
So, you want to look into that.
And this is just an easy way of doing it.
Another way of doing it is just get cloning the source code,
and changing your directory to it,
and you have access to all this source code you need,
in order to modify it.
And then you check out and change to whatever version of Debian you're going to download.
And this one we're using 17.09,
which is the latest one.
So, and then we can't see that in here it tells you to export cross compile to your path.
And we're going to show you what this path actually means.
As we mentioned in the slides.
So if we go over here.
Let me clear this real quick.
And then when we downloaded the GCC compiler,
we put it in our downloads folder. So let's go in there.
And then let's go to our GCC Linaro and then if we go back to the website,
it will tell you that is looking for aarch64-linux-gnu.
But if you go back here in ls it's not there right.
So, we want you to,
put in the past an extra backslash bin.
And if you ls here you'll see that all the GNU files,
GNU programs are there.
So, this is just a clarification on the instructions that might confuse some people,
so we just wanted to clarify that.
Oh my bad. As you scroll down and then,
this is the part for just compiling the software.
And as you can see it tells you to move the modules to your lib modules folder,
and the modules are basically like additional stuff like
some support for video for Linux two.
Video for Linux two is also supported by the modules that you install here.
So, these are some cool things
that you guys can just use to customize your operating system.
And then afterwards it tells you how to build the boot image.
And this is creating the image itself that you're going to use fastboot on.
And if you scroll down,
it tells you how to do the fastboot.
So, if you just cover steps 1 to 4 of
the fastboot instructions and then run this right after,
you should have the image on your DragonBoard.
And then if you want to know,
so Debian also gives you an option to work directly from
the DragonBoard and customize the source code on the DragonBoard.
And these are the instructions on that.
So, for this you don't really need a host machine,
you can just do it on the DragonBoard and then yeah.
So, for that you want to go to how to get a customized Debian packages source code.
Now that's all the instructions that you'll need to look at.
And if you guys need any help,
just check out the open hours as we mentioned in previous videos,
or just ask us directly.
Yeah.